# TRTM Dictionary of Magnonics 

## Foreword: History, methodology, and editorial notes 

In 2025, we started work on what was termed the «TRTM Dictionary of Magnonics» (the Dictionary), with the aim of providing a common ground for further research development in magnonics, useful to and usable by both experienced researchers and those just starting work in the field.  However, its first version, «TRTM Dictionary of Magnonics 2025», contained only the three key definitions – those for "magnonics", "magnonic device", and "magnonic crystal".  This reflects the scale and difficulty of the challenge when approached rigorously and ultimately leads to the changes described below. 

The drastically increased volume and variety of the definitions present in the Dictionary now have resulted from the use of large language models (LLMs).  This represents a major twist in the direction of the Dictionary, one that was perhaps as inevitable as natural and justified.  Indeed, compiling a dictionary of terms is a natural task for an LLM, which effectively synthesises and summarises knowledge accumulated across the community over many years of research.  The use of artificial intelligence (AI) is balanced by the expertise of the TRTM community, who curate and refine the LLMs' suggestions and therefore retain the ultimate responsibility for the contents of the Dictionary.  Not only does this lend credibility to the outcome of the process, but it also effectively provides feedback for the LLMs' training, especially as the use of the Dictionary proliferates through the community and is reflected in the published literature.  In this way, the Dictionary is expected to benefit the research community while also contributing to the refinement of LLMs. 

As before, the intention is to keep the Dictionary neutral and inclusive. Yet, we depart from the "contribution without attribution" principle, as we hope to stimulate community engagement with the effort.  Instead, we introduce the role of the Editor (or Editors) as the person who takes the primary responsibility for the work for each edition of the Dictionary. All other contributors will be listed,  or  otherwise  appropriately  acknowledged,  in  Appendix  B,  citing  (if  requested)  their individual contributions.  Appendix B will also include any appropriate disclaimers.  As a rule, the first draft of each edition will be posted on the TRTM web page and distributed through other means.  Then, the Dictionary's main contents (i.e. the definitions) will be revised and augmented with appropriate discussion and conclusion sections, in line with the feedback received from the delegates of the TRTM conference (onsite) as well as that from the rest of the community (by correspondence).  We will then seek to publish this and subsequent versions of the Dictionary in a suitable form under an appropriate open access licence, currently at Zenodo (https://zenodo.org/).  Everyone will be able to use the contents of the Dictionary in their own publications and presentations (and is encouraged to do so), perhaps citing the relevant version and adding a web link to the TRTM 2026 website. 

We intend to update and revise the Dictionary annually, in line with the TRTM organisation cycle.  The core contents of the Dictionary (although not necessarily the accompanying text) will remain free from references and claims of priority.  Whenever there are multiple competing and sufficiently distinct definitions, we will endeavour to list all the definitions.  Where applicable (for example, when consensus cannot be reached in time, or when multiple versions exist but are not sufficiently distinct), a summary of the discussion points will be included, albeit kept minimal.  The terms and definitions included in one version of the Dictionary will remain open for discussion and further improvement in subsequent cycles of the work. 
